TIC TAC TOE CLOSING
Melanie, Sabir, Maisha

For the group project, the team, Maisha, Melanie, and Sabir, created a Tic Tac Toe game. The process took approximately a month. 
Initially, a memory game was the original plan. However, this project had to be scrapped as there was not enough time and the appropriate
skill level was lacking. After that point, the team went with their backup plan of Tic Tac Toe. Although there was a setback in the 
game’s development, the final product was able to be put together effectively and within an appropriate amount of time. 

LESSONS
From this whole process, it is evident that there are many lessons to be learned as beginner coders. The first being, is to keep up 
with time and making the right judgements. For example, the groups initial idea of creating a memory game would have required more 
experience and skills, something that all of us collectively were lacking as of that point in time. Perseverance and ambition are 
respectful and unique characteristics of a human being. However, had we kept persevering with creating a game where we did not 
understand how to commence or how to finalize an end product, the time spent in all our planning stages would have been wasteful. 
Therefore the group decided to scrap it and start with a more easier game to create and so set out a new reasonable target. Through 
this strategy, all of us learned the basic concepts of GUI in java as well what our code meant and what it is was doing.  It is 
important to start from the basics and work your way up to experience. We also made this judgement in time to have something to 
demonstrate on the due date as well. 

SUCCESSES
Overall, we were very successful in the way our game played out. The first thing that we were successful in was that the game obviously 
worked, and furthermore that we knew why exactly it worked and what we had to do to make it work in our code. An added bonus success is
the visual of our game. The group was very content with how professional it turned out to look. Additionally, we were all pleased with
the level of communication and professionalism amongst us throughout the whole process. Each of us contributed something and did so 
within time. We also helped each other to finish our respective parts and collectively as a whole.

OBSTACLES 
An obstacle we had to face was the lack of skill set as coders as we were all beginners. Through our memory game, we discovered that 
we did not know how to start it and how to incorporate GUI at the same time. To solve this problem, we backtracked and chose another 
easier game to code to start building our skills. Through Tic Tac Toe, we found many resources to help us understand how to build it 
and therefore did not run into as many problems. This also caused us to understand GUI in Java and the code we were doing more in depth. 

EXPECTATIONS
Our main expectation was to create a Memory Game. However, that was not possible. We quickly realized that we did not need our game to 
look good but however to acquire functionality. Therefore, with that mindset, we decided to continue working on our second game of Tic 
Tac Toe. We merely wanted one program that did the job. Adding an instruction page and a main page to the main game came afterwards. We
did successfully build a program that had functionality and also looked good. We also managed to combine the main page and instruction 
page to the game. In conclusion, we met our expectations and went above too. 

PEER FEEDBACK
Overall, the game received positive feedback. Many of the players found our concept to be enjoyable and would even stay around to 
play for a while. The players seemed to enjoy the recreation of the classic game as well as the more modern twist we had incorporated
into the system. Although some of the players were surprised that the game was different than what was initially planned, they still 
appreciated and enjoyed the new product.

IMPROVEMENTS
  For our next game, we would like to begin with planning a game that we know we can make in our capacity so we do not waste our time 
  planning and building a complex game above our abilities such as the Memory game.  We would also like to develop our skills more and 
  potentially add animations to any future projects, slowing expanding our skill set.


